---
layout: post
title: 2017 Annual Governance Meeting
description: Minutes from our Annual Governance Meeting on January 7, 2017
image: assets/images/staywoke.jpg
author: Dale Sheldon-Hess, Coral Sheldon-Hess, Connor Sites-Bowen
---

# Code for Pittsburgh - Annual Governance Meeting - Minutes

January 7, 1017

## Attendance

8 in attendance:

* Connor Sites-Bowen, presiding
* Dale Sheldon-Hess
* Coral Sheldon-Hess
* Eleanor Tutt
* Toby Greenwalt
* Christian Gass
* Matthew Lavin
* Hollen Barmer

## 2016 Recap

Connor has written a year-in-review [blog post](https://codeforpittsburgh.github.io/2016/12/30/YearInReview/), summed up here:

* Held events every month except January (cold) and November (c4a conference).
* Best-attended event was Bicycle Crash Data Workshop/Hack Night
	* Most-specific topic
	* Most partnering community organizations
* Least-attended event was April’s non-themed Hack Night
* Special Events:
   * Wikipedia Edit-a-thon
       * 10 new articles
       * 46 edited articles
    * Design + Open Data presentation to AIGI
    * Data Drinks (happy hour)
* Police Blotter project was a huge win and is now complete
* Membership and Communication Channels:
    * Meetup membership has almost doubled, from 225 to 502
    * Twitter follows are now >1,000
    * Recently added a Slack channel
* Changed name from Open Pittsburgh to Code For Pittsburgh
* CfA Summit:
    * National organization is no longer officially supporting local brigades
    * Will advise local brigades at they each try their own thing
    * So what do we do now?
    * Also, the national scene is popping off - there are a ton of amazing folks to learn from, who are trying their own experiments in their own contexts. Connecting to that network of cities is vital.

## Vision for the Future

### Background:

* 4 or 5 years ago, CfA was providing money to local brigades
* CfA is no longer giving out money - moving away from building network to other goals
    * Local brigades can continue to use branding if they use the CfA Code of Conduct
    * Brigades can pursue whatever organizational structure will work for them, such as
        * Consulting firms (LLCs)
        * Nonprofits (401c3s)
        * Loose, budget-free affiliations of individuals

### So what do WE do now?

* Proposal: We continue to exist
    * Passed by acclimation
* Discussion about budget, goals (below)

#### Budget:

* Currently we have no formal budget
    * Carnegie Public Library has provided space for free
    * Connor has paid for some tech (domain names, Meetup, etc.) out of pocket
* We could do things that cost money, but then we’d need money
    * Supporting projects with hosting/domains, etc.
    * Different food options (sponsorships by restaurants also possible)
    * Advertising, attending events that have fees
    * Possible income sources include grants, such as One Source grant for civic tech and data 


### So what sort of things do we want to do?

* Do more of our most-successful events
    * Wikipedia Edit-a-thon
    * Partner with community groups; BikePgh went great; how about WalkPgh, others? 
    * Tools to Speak to Power
        * Second session already has 34 signups
        * Can we build a website that teaches the same ideas?
        * That should be a project for this year

### Connor Gets Ambitious:

* This could be a good and big thing; it could be enough to support a full-time staff
* Connor puts in ~10hr/wk, and could do 40
* Connor has spoken with some foundation folks informally; if we build it, there is likely money available
* Question: Connor, what would you do?
    * Plan events more than 1 month ahead
    * Plan more than 1 event per month; perhaps weekly instead of monthly
        * Panels, discussions, speakers (perhaps out-of-town)
    * Currently we often duplicate events that succeeded for other brigades; we could instead be the ones creating new, unique events
    * Publish more than tweets
    * Do the “homework” of implementing a first pass at the ideas that come up in meetings
    * Keep up with all the other tech orgs in town, “calendar awareness”
    * Writing grant applications
    * Documentation
* There has been some success locally with “shared staffing” models; several orgs hire the same professional together, each gets them part-time
* Having someone who can be the ground-game face of the org during business hours would be good
* Doing consistent weekly events does take a lot of work
* Is half-time, at least for a while, a possibility?
* Tasks described cover many roles; could you hire someone else to do part of it while continuing your current job?

### But Going Back to the Previous Questions, What Do We Want to Do?

* Would like to do something “very Pittsburgh”
    * Like the Fish Fry or Pierogi maps
* Take public stances 
    * Without being “political”, that is, without supporting or opposing particular politicians or parties
* Teach the skills from Tools to Speak to Power presentation, apply them and document the results
* Identify an issue of disparity in the community, use skills and tools to help the under-served
	* What about water quality in Pittsburgh?
        * Lots of individual lead tests being done, but no one is really collating them
        * Someone on Reddit had the same idea, but not everyone is on Reddit
            * Does the person on Reddit know we exist?
        * Adopt-a-Thing (usually hydrants) is a fairly complete off-the-shelf project, a quick win
        	* Adding to that, city reports weather emergencies; could make it auto-contact adopters after weather emergencies
* If I miss a C4P meeting, how do I keep track of priorities and projects?
* Add some continuity to projects, too. "This quarter, we're focusing on ..." 


## Organizational Roles for 2017

### Required Positions:

* Captain — Connor
* Storyteller (Communications) — Hollen
* Community Organizer (Recruiting) — Toby
* Delivery Lead (Point of Contact for Projects) — Christian and Mark again; delegate more by-project 

### Optional Positions

Duties will be carried out by someone in a required position unless someone volunteers:

* Training Organizer (Onboardiing) — Toby
* Government Liaison
* Developer Evangelist (Like delivery lead, but nice)
* Event Organizer — Connor
* Data Evangelist (Data Lorax)
* Policy Evangelist
* Website Manager - Christian & Hollen
* Maptime - Christian Gass (w/ support from Melinda A, Eleanor Tutt, and others interested) - The Maptime org emphasizes a distributed, volunteer and step up approach. Maptime is a flag to rally around.

We discussed adding a Documentation Lead. Just as the Delivery Lead works at a high level on project delivery and also makes sure each individual project has a per-project Delivery Lead, a Documentation Lead would make sure each project has a per-project Documentation Lead and would work to make our documentation more consistent, with the goal that anything we release is repeatable. Having that as a role would also formalize our commitment to doing better documentation and being more transparent.

If the organization formalizes as a non-profit, should, or will, the Executive Director be separate from Captain?

* Yes 
    * After discussion, people feel Connor might be best as Executive Director, but should be Captain until we make this change
* For an example of how this role-split works in practice, we discussed LITA (Library Information Technology Association) Executive Director Jenny Levine and her relationship to the board; the board sets the vision, priorities; Jenny helps wrangle volunteers and staff to make it all happen, does a great deal of between-meeting homework

## Returning to Visions for the Future

### More things we could do:

* Making existing data sets available to be easily used in common art tools
* Mapping all sorts of businesses to the policies or issues they have supported
    * Consider how this data can be used for ill
* Building on that, how about a Data Ethics meetup?
    * What programs will you not write? Make a list now.
    * See neveragain.tech

* We should focus on fewer projects, better documented
** We will require a Documentation Lead for projects (along with a Delivery Lead and a project plan)

* Clean up our GitHub
    * Make it clear where items such as meeting minutes should go (in the blog)
    * A GitHub wiki is just a specially-formatted repository
    * The start of a project is messy; it’s okay to start with a private repo

## Code of Conduct Review

* The CoC is in GitHub, but it needs to be on the website
* Needs to have contact information for group that handles potential CoC violations
* There is a Slack contact, but that username is for the CfA Slack and needs to be removed
* So, CoC Group
    * Members: Connor, Coral, Eleanor, Hollen, Matt - open to more volunters!
    * Group should all be reachable via a single email (safespace@…)
* Each event should start with a mention/summary of CoC and how to identify the duty officers present for that event. Printed copies of the CoC should be made available at each physical event
* Need some way to identify those responsible for handling potential violations a the event; a special lanyard? A button?

## Next Hack Night
Thursday - Civic Hack Night - Data + Activism Redux!

## February Hack Night

Fish Fry Map Data Entry-a-Thon and Pierogi Potluck

* As close to Ash Wednesday as possible
