---
layout: post
title: Zone 6 News
description: Fall 2018
date: 2018-08-08
image: assets/images/Zone6Meeting.jpg
author: Mark Howe
---
# Meeting Information

## The Zone 6 Public Safety Council is planning for strong recruitment efforts during the months of  September and October.  

## The September meeting will be geared to be more of a planning meeting, designed to identify information and education that the community would like to see at future meetings through the remainder of 2018 and into the new year of 2019.  That meeting is scheduled for Monday, September 24, 2018  at 6:30 PM.

## To further support their efforts in bringing Public Safety officials and information to the residents, they will be featuring a special presentation by the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire on prevention and safety at their Monday, October 22nd meeting at 6:30 PM.  October is National Fire Prevention meeting.  

## All Zone 6 Public Safety Zone Council meetings are held at the Banksville Park Community Shelter, located in the park at 1459 Crane Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA .   They begin at 6:30 and end approximately at 8 PM.

## There will not be a Zone 6 PSC meeting for the month of August 2018.

# Citizen & Student Police Academies - Fall 2018
## The Citizen's Police Academy, for individuals 18 years of age and older, will  be held weekly beginning Thursday, September 6, 2018.

## The Student Police Academy, for youth in grades 9 thru 12, which will also be held weekly beginning Wednesday, October 10, 2018.

## All classes will begin at 6 PM and will be held at Point Park University, Downtown Pittsburgh.

[City information link](http://pittsburghpa.gov/police/community-policing/index.html)
