---
layout: post
title: Mosquito Treatment
description: Mosquito Treatment West End
date: 2018-07-24
image: 
author: Mark Howe
---

# Mosquito Treatment

### Mosquito Treatment Scheduled for July 26 in West End and North Side Neighborhoods PITTSBURGH – Recent samples of mosquitoes collected from the city of Pittsburgh’s West End and North Side neighborhoods have tested positive for West Nile virus. In response, the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) will treat those areas using a truck-mounted, Ultra Low Volume (ULV) sprayer on Thursday, July 26, between the hours of 8-10 p.m. The treatment is intended to decrease the mosquito population and minimize the risk of transmission of the virus. In the event of rain, the treatment will take place the following day, on Friday, July 27, during the same hours. The product used will be a mosquito pesticide called Zenivex. It is not harmful to humans and pets. Health Department officials urge the public to protect themselves from mosquitoes by getting rid of standing water in yards and neighborhoods, making sure that open window and doors have screens, using insect repellent on exposed skin and minimizing time spent outdoors, especially at dawn and dusk when mosquitoes are most active. When used as directed, insect repellent is the best way to protect yourself from mosquito bites. Complaints regarding properties with stagnant water in tires, unmaintained swimming pools or other water-holding containers can be reported to the Health Department’s Housing and Community Environment program by calling 412-350-4046. Between 70-80% of people that become infected with West Nile virus (http://bit.ly/2LCDxZX) do not develop any symptoms, and are not impacted in any way. Approximately 20% who become infected will develop a fever with other symptoms such as headache, body aches, joint pains, vomiting, diarrhea, or rash. Most people with these symptoms will recover completely, and can recover on their own. Less than 1% of people infected with the virus will develop severe symptoms of neurologic illness caused by inflammation of the brain or surrounding tissues. Anyone who believes they, or someone they know, has West Nile virus, should consult a healthcare provider for evaluation and diagnosis. There have been no reported human cases of the West Nile virus identified in Allegheny County in 2018. # # # Karen Hacker, MD, MPH, Director Allegheny County Health Department – Public Information Office 542 Fourth Avenue │ Pittsburgh, PA 15219 Phone: 412-687-ACHD (2243) │ Fax: 412-578-8325│www.alleghenycounty.us/healthdepartment